All right.
So we've learned a lot about CSSA transitions.
Let's now try and make something with them what we'll do is take a image gallery that I've already created
for us a basic image gallery that doesn't have any effect and will add some simple animated hover effects.
So let me show you what that will look like.
Here's the completed version.
We only have three images in this case.
But as I hover over them you'll see there's a couple of things that happen.
I'll break it down in just a moment.
But essentially you have an icon that appears and then a color as well overlay.
But there's actually more behind the scenes that you may not be aware of at first glance.
So we're going to implement this these transitions.
There's a couple different components like I mentioned.
So I've broken it down here.
There are there are three basic pieces.
There's a background div that's behind the image that you actually don't see when the page loads.
And then there's the image that goes on top and then finally there's an icon that's on top of both of
those.
So what we're doing is hiding the icon and then showing it when the user hovers.
And at the same time we're actually changing the opacity of the image so that you see the underlying
color.
So this fades a bit and we see that red.
So let me show you one more time.
The icon appears an image Dims are actually just dim the opacity changes so we can see some of that
red behind or in this case some of the blue behind or the teal green color behind.
So that's the basics.
But there's a couple of things that this example will actually allow us to do that I think are a little
bit more fun than just regular transitions.
And if you're at all curious about these images these are three that I've taken.
Photography is sort of a hobby of mine.
So sometimes I try and include my photos in the course so three photos.
But that's not that important and underlying them there is a div for each one.
So if I comment out one of these images let's take this one and save.
You can see behind it there's a blue div and the same here there's a red one and there's a green one
behind this image.
Then we have the image on top and then on top of that there is an icon.
The icons are done with font.
Awesome.
If you're not familiar with that it's a awesome library that has a ton of different pre-done icons that
you can reference and use by just importing fun awesome which I do right here up top and then referencing
a dash whatever the name of the icon is.
In my case I did camera PA and a cloud.
So we have those three components and each one of them are inside of a div called item.
So that item div is one photo plus a background behind it plus the icon.
So there are three different items.
OK.
So a couple of things you might notice first of all this icon seems like it's not in the middle.
So we will address that with our animation and with the scale.
But let's start off with something easy.
When we hover over one of these images why don't we change the opacity so we can start to see that color
behind it just like we do here.
So to do that it's just a simple hover.
So let's scroll down.
Make this a bit bigger as well and I'll go down just do it at the very bottom for now.
So will you give that item.
So all items when they're hovered over change the image
and make the opacity zero point three.
Now when I hover you can see that we're getting that color from behind.
So that's the very first thing there's no transition yet.
But that's the first property to change.
So let's add in a basic transition.
I'll start by adding a very quick point three five second transition to everything in the item div..
So just sort of a catchall.
So the reason I'm doing this is we're going to animate the opacity here as well as the icon which is
also inside of this item div..
So I could affect them all with a single transition but I need to use this star because if I just say
div that item and I add a transition in here let's say transition I'll do something very obvious first
one second is an out and I'll do it for all properties.
That doesn't affect our hover because the opacity change is happening on the image.
It's not happening to the item even though the image is inside of the item.
So if we want it to happen we want the transition to apply to everything inside the item div which includes
the image and the icon.
Well in that case we'll save use this star and now it takes a second for that transition to happen.
And then once we start applying things to or effects to our icons those will also take a second.
But of course we don't want them to stay one second long but I'll keep it there for now just so that
it's easy for us to see what's happening.
OK so another small note that you may not have noticed.
If you take a look at the end state of this animation.
So where are we seeing the read through and you compare it to the end state of this one.
Notice that the image is a lot Dolor we can't see those bright colors popping through like we can here.
So this is a choice that I made and a common choice that you'll see.
You can actually make this image greyscale at the same time as you're changing the opacity and a lot
of people like that effect that the gray out effect kind of draws your focus away from the image and
towards the icon and makes icon stand out more.
So that's really simple to do.
There's actually a property called Filter.
And we can just do greyscale is the filter 100 percent.
So not something that we've seen in the course but a fun little property.
And actually if I just do greyscale you see what happens when I hover all that color goes away and on
its own it's actually kind of a cool effect.
You might prefer just to leave it like that and have the icon be colored totally up to you.
But I'm going to also add that opacity.
So you can see now that we get the red but all those other colors are gone.
So let me commentate out here all hover over it.
Comment that line out
and save you can see now the colors back and my uncommented the color goes away.
So not mandatory but a nice little thing to know that you can do.
OK.
So we have our one second transform let's make it point five seconds for now.
So it's a little faster.
So now we're going to conquer the icon and let's talk about how it actually works.
So if we focus here as I hover it happens pretty quickly but the icon doesn't just appear out of nowhere
it didn't fade in.
It actually scales up from the center.
So that's a hover away you'll see it shrink down and then scale up.
So what do you know.
We know how to do that using transform scale.
So that's what we'll be doing.
We'll start it off as hidden by using scale set to zero.
So by scaling something to zero it doesn't show up.
But it allows us to animate it to scale of one when we hover.
And that will keep us this growing effect.
And then the shrinking effect when the hover ends.
So let me show you if I scroll down here and add in a div dot item covered just like before but this
time the target the icons instead of the item because we want this effect to trigger when I hover anywhere
over the item not just where the icon is.
So to do that you don't put the hover on the icon and put the cover on the item and what will change
here is do a transform
scale to.
And you can see it's growing.
Now this isn't what we want.
In fact what we actually want is for it to start at scale 0 and end at scale 1.
Right now we're going from one to two.
So I'll leave it at that for now.
Transform scale too.
But what we need to do is change that initial scale so that's div that item icon and actually I'm pretty
sure I have that appear somewhere else but I'm going to write it.
Yeah I do.
I'm going to write it separately so you can just see the new code separate from the starter code.
So it would be a better practice in the completed code to combine these so I'm not duplicating selectors
but I'm not going to do that here just for clarity sake and all we'll do is set the transform to initially
be scale 0 and you'll see they go way.
And now when I hover they're growing to scale too.
So let's change that to be scale 1 and we're getting that effect yes it's still in the wrong place but
we're getting close.
So what we've done is set scale zero as the initial state and it's going to scale one on hover.
And remember that transition right now is coming from here where we added this item star all properties
anywhere inside of an item on anything inside whether it's an image or an icon should take half a second
is in out.
So the next thing we should do is move the icon to the middle and actually very simple in our case where
we can do is just add to the transform translate it using percent negative 50 percent common negative
50 percent.
We're going to move it 50 percent up and the left and you might think that's enough.
But actually if I hover it looks like it's not working.
But the reason is that it is translating negative 50 negative 50 when it's not showing up because scale
is zero.
But then when we hover we just said scale back to 1.
And if you remember from our transform videos earlier on if you re-assign transform it overwrites everything.
So in this case we're only assigning scale 1.
So it's essentially deleting this part.
So what we can do is just copy that down here and add that in as well so that at both points it's translated.
So it's moving it over and scaling it to zero at the beginning.
And then when we hover it stays moved over.
And it scales it to 1.
Now it works.
So now we have the basics done.
All that's left is if you wanted to tweak it to match some of the more fancy timing that I included.
So rather than making you watch me type the whole thing but I'm going to do is just copy some of the
timing in.
So here we have a curve and a transition as well as a delay actually 100 milliseconds that affects when
we hover over the item it affects the icon.
So basically this transform and rather than doing all we could just make this transform because that's
the only property that's changing on the icon.
So now as I have for see if you can notice that it grows a bit and then shrinks back down a tiny bit.
So if I made that a full second it might be easier to see savey again.
There you go.
So gross a little too far and then comes back.
And that's because of this curve here.
But I'll go back to 300 milliseconds.
So notice though when I hover away we still have that same effect from before.
We don't have this fancy Kubic as a curve where it grows and then shrinks.
We actually have is just the initial Trents transition that's being set right here so we can change
that if we wanted to.
This is only impacting when we hover.
It doesn't impact when we leave.
So what we can do is go to div dot item.
I said the same thing except without the hover and whatever we put here will happen after the hover.
So let me fix this up to be transform as well so are more specific.
But let's say I made this one second long you'll see that when we hover is still only 300 milliseconds.
But then as I leave it takes a second and we get a very similar transition.
There we go.
So I'm going to leave that except turn it back to 300 milliseconds without the delay.
So that delay I'm not well-versed in the psychology behind this but I believe that there is I read something
somewhere a long time ago that having things feel too fast or too slick it sometimes can be a worse
experience.
Obviously you don't want long load times or anything but in this case a tiny delay of 100 milliseconds
on this icon makes it feel a little more natural.
But we don't have a delay on the color and the Grayskull that's happening.
And that's fine.
And the very last thing if you want can make this a little bit faster.
And now we have the same effects that I had in the initial solution code of course.
Tweak this however you like play around with these curves.
You know people don't just come up with these sort of curves out of nowhere.
Most of the time they're using an editor like the ones that I've shown you before.
So if that's something that you are curious about and you're more inclined to actually create your own.
Definitely try that out.
Use one of those using tools.
I think that one was called Caesar and it allows you to draw a chart and graph and it will convert it
to the appropriate quadratic curve.
All right.
So you can see that transitions are useful.
You know we didn't have to do anything crazy we really only have a couple of transitions here on a couple
of properties.
OK.
So we enjoyed building that.
Now we're moving on to another type of animation just called animations.